fermat-book/book-chapter-17.asciidoc, before:

== Chapter 17: Fermat Crypto Broker Platform
In this platform the actors involved are the *cryptobroker* and his customers (*cryptocustomers*). A *cryptobroker* is a person or small organization whose business logic is to buy and sell cryptocurrency for fiat money in his local market, obtaining his profits from the difference in the buy/sell price. We distinguish also two usual levels of *cryptobrokers*, those acting as *cryptobrokers wholesalers* and those who deal with final users/customers.   

=== New components
The new components added to the framework offer the following functionalities:
[horizontal]
Fiat Index :: to check the exchange rate of fiat currencies.
Business transactions :: to handle more complex transactions that include negotiation, agreement, sale and purchase of crypto and fiat money.
Crypto Broker Platform Wallet Manager :: to manage different wallets according to multiple actor identities in the three actor types ( as cryptobroker, cryptocustomer, crypto wholesaler).
Community Components :: to keep track of relationships between Crypto Brokers and Crypto Users by defining communities.
Wholesalers :: contact list of available crypto wholesalers.
Crypto Broker Wallets :: Crypto Broker Wallet , Crypto Broker Customer Wallet and Crypto Broker Wholesaler Wallet   +

=== Fermat Cryptobroker Wallet
This Wallet is designed with the theoretical assumption that the broker always has available stock of cryptocurrency and fiat money and that his activity is to be constantly selling this two kind of products obtaining profit. The functionalities offered should help him to run the business in a simple way, taking the responsability of the basic management of the broker's fund (in cryptocurrency and fiat money, in cash and in bank accounts), the management of the contact list of his customers, and a balance of the profits generated. +
Key functionalities are:

* *Funds replenishment*:
** Crypto Currency 
** Cash Money (Fiat money in cash)
** Bank Money (Fiat money in a bank account)
* *Incoming/Outgoing money*: 
** Cash on Hand 
** Delivered Cash
** Money Bank Deposit 
* *Special functions* for _associated crypto brokers network_ (*agreement* between colleagues to be able to manage joint operations when needed) :
** keep track of *Broker-to-Broker contract*



=== Fermat Cryptobroker Customer Wallet


////
=== _Actor Network Service layer_
Crypto Broker :: 
Crypto Customer :: +

=== _Identity layer_
Crypto Broker :: 
Crypto Customer :: +

=== _World layer_
Fiat Index :: +

=== _Wallet layer_
Crypto Broker :: +

=== _Contract layer_
Customer Broker Crypto Money Purchase ::
Customer Broker Cash Money Purchase ::
Customer Broker Bank Money Purchase ::
Customer Broker Crypto Money Sale ::
Customer Broker Cash Money Sale ::
Customer Broker Bank Money Sale ::
Broker to Broker ::
Broker to Wholesaler :: +

=== _Business Transaction layer_
Crypto Money Stock Replenishment ::
Cash Money Stock Replenishment ::
Bank Money Stock Replenishment ::
Customer Broker Crypto Sale ::
Customer Broker Cash Sale ::
Customer Broker Bank Sale ::
Customer Broker Crypto Purchase ::
Customer Broker Cash Purchase ::
Customer Broker Bank Purchase ::
Wholesaler Crypto Sale ::
Wholesaler Fiat Sale :: +

=== _Request layer_
Customer Broker Purchase ::
Customer Broker Sale :: +

=== _Middleware layer_
Customers ::
Wholesalers ::
Crypto Broker Wallet Identity ::
Wallet Manager ::
Sub App Manager :: +

=== _Actor layer_
Crypto Broker :: 
Crypto Customer :: +

=== _Agent layer_
Crypto Broker :: +

=== _Desktop Module layer_
Sub App Manager :: 
Wallet Manager :: +

=== _Subapp Module layer_
Crypto Broker Identity ::
Crypto Broker Community :: 
Crypto User Identity ::
Crypto User Community :: 
Customers ::
Suppliers :: +

=== _Wallet Module layer_
Crypto Broker :: 
Crypto Customer :: +

=== _Desktop layer_
Sub App Manager :: 
Wallet Manager :: +

=== _Sub App layer_
Crypto Broker Identity ::
Crypto Broker Community :: 
Crypto User Identity ::
Crypto User Community :: 
Customers ::
Suppliers :: +

=== _Reference Wallet layer_
Crypto Broker :: 
Crypto Customer :: +

////

==== Continue reading ...
////
link:book-chapter-19.asciidoc[Digital Assets Platform]
////

link:book-chapter-18.asciidoc[Next Chapter]

link:book-chapter-16.asciidoc[Previous Chapter]

Commit message:

CDN first run + more details CBP (chap 18 y 19)

fermat-book/book-chapter-17.asciidoc, after:

== Chapter 17: Fermat Crypto Broker Platform
In this platform the actors involved are the *crypto broker* and his customers (*crypto customers*). A *crypto broker* is a person or small organization whose business logic is to buy and sell cryptocurrency for fiat money in his local market, obtaining his profits from the difference in the buy/sell price. We distinguish also two usual levels of *crypto brokers*, those acting as *crypto brokers wholesalers* and those who deal with final customers. The key goal of this platform is to *facilitate* the most of the routine tasks to run the business and even provide the necesary functionalities to prevent _always_ the loss of money in every transaction.   

=== New components
The new components added to the framework offer the following functionalities:
[horizontal]
Fiat Index :: to check the exchange rate of fiat currencies.
Business transactions :: to handle more complex transactions that include negotiation, contracts (agreements), sale and purchase of crypto and fiat money.
Crypto Broker Platform Wallet Manager :: to manage different wallets according to multiple actor identities in the three actor types ( as crypto broker, cryptocustomer, crypto wholesaler).
Community Components  :: to keep track of relationships between Crypto Brokers and Crypto customers by defining communities.
Wholesalers :: contact list of available crypto wholesalers.
Crypto Broker Wallets :: Crypto Broker Wallet , Crypto Broker Customer Wallet +

=== Fermat Crypto Broker Wallet
This Wallet is designed with the theoretical assumption that the broker always has available stock of cryptocurrency and fiat money and that his activity is to be constantly selling this two kind of products obtaining profit. The functionalities offered should help him to run the business in a simple way, taking the responsability of the basic management of the broker's fund (in cryptocurrency and fiat money, in cash and in bank accounts), the management of the contact list of his customers, and a balance of the profits generated. +
Key functionalities are:

* *Funds restock and destock*:
** Crypto Currency 
** Cash Money (Fiat money in cash)
** Bank Money (Fiat money in a bank account)
* *Incoming/Outgoing money*: 
** Cash on Hand 
** Delivered Cash
** Money Bank Deposit 
* *Special functions* for _associated Crypto Brokers network_ (*agreement* between colleagues to be able to manage joint operations when needed) :
** keep track of *Broker-to-Broker contract*



=== Fermat Crypto Customer Wallet
It has the complementary functionalities of the transactions involved in dealing with a Crypto Broker, keeping track of the details how each exchange was actually made.

////
=== _Actor Network Service layer_
Crypto Broker :: 
Crypto Customer :: +

=== _Identity layer_
Crypto Broker :: 
Crypto Customer :: +

=== _World layer_
Fiat Index :: +

=== _Wallet layer_
Crypto Broker :: +

=== _Contract layer_
Customer Broker Crypto Money Purchase ::
Customer Broker Cash Money Purchase ::
Customer Broker Bank Money Purchase ::
Customer Broker Crypto Money Sale ::
Customer Broker Cash Money Sale ::
Customer Broker Bank Money Sale ::
Broker to Broker ::
Broker to Wholesaler :: +

=== _Business Transaction layer_
Crypto Money Stock Replenishment ::
Cash Money Stock Replenishment ::
Bank Money Stock Replenishment ::
Customer Broker Crypto Sale ::
Customer Broker Cash Sale ::
Customer Broker Bank Sale ::
Customer Broker Crypto Purchase ::
Customer Broker Cash Purchase ::
Customer Broker Bank Purchase ::
Wholesaler Crypto Sale ::
Wholesaler Fiat Sale :: +

=== _Request layer_
Customer Broker Purchase ::
Customer Broker Sale :: +

=== _Middleware layer_
Customers ::
Wholesalers ::
Crypto Broker Wallet Identity ::
Wallet Manager ::
Sub App Manager :: +

=== _Actor layer_
Crypto Broker :: 
Crypto Customer :: +

=== _Agent layer_
Crypto Broker :: +

=== _Desktop Module layer_
Sub App Manager :: 
Wallet Manager :: +

=== _Subapp Module layer_
Crypto Broker Identity ::
Crypto Broker Community :: 
Crypto customer Identity ::
Crypto customer Community :: 
Customers ::
Suppliers :: +

=== _Wallet Module layer_
Crypto Broker :: 
Crypto Customer :: +

=== _Desktop layer_
Sub App Manager :: 
Wallet Manager :: +

=== _Sub App layer_
Crypto Broker Identity ::
Crypto Broker Community :: 
Crypto customer Identity ::
Crypto customer Community :: 
Customers ::
Suppliers :: +

=== _Reference Wallet layer_
Crypto Broker :: 
Crypto Customer :: +

////

==== Continue reading ...
////
link:book-chapter-19.asciidoc[Digital Assets Platform]
////

link:book-chapter-18.asciidoc[Next Chapter]

link:book-chapter-16.asciidoc[Previous Chapter]
